.. title:: Dojo Project Status

.. raw:: html
   :file: ../website/rest_template/header.html

Current Efforts
-------------------

0.2.2
******************************************

Proposed release date: January 14, 2006 

Fix `0.2.x bugs`_

.. _`0.2.x bugs`: http://dojotoolkit.org/trac/report/10

0.3 "The Widget Release"
******************************************

Proposed release date: February 28, 2006 

Core:
- Performance improvements/profiling
- Provide better/simpler APIs for inheritance (public facing APIs are a bit 
  challenging)
- crypto
- SVG layout calculations, etc.
- xhtml issues/testing (to support nested svg widgets, etc.)
- hostenvs for dashboard, canvas


Widgets:
- Widget Refactoring
  + public facing APIs
	+ widget template improvements
  + inheritance simplifications
	+ css-interning
	+ making it easier to specify an external css document, etc.)
	+ etc.
- Widget API cleanup/unification
- Default widget styles (should have at least 2 default themes)
- SVG widget facility improvements
- Begin VML compatibility layer
- New widgets
	+ Base widgets/container widgets
	+ Start Grid widget, data binding (large number of people)
	+ SVG Color Picker widget(s)
	+ Validation widgets
	+ Other widgets as contributed by the community
- Guide on writing widgets
- Guide on debugging widgets

Status
------------------------

Dojo is under heavy development. We have finished a significant portion of the
core "plumbing" for the project. Widgets are under development by multiple open
source and commercial efforts, and many of these are being contributed back to
the community. Dojo has been successfully deployed in mutliple commercial
products including Jot, TurboAjax, Renkoo, Loomia, GreenPlum, and several others.

More details are available in the `Dojo Roadmap`_

Releases
------------------------

Dojo 0.2.0 was release on 2005/12/15. 
..FIXME: link to release notes

Dojo 0.1.0 was released on 2005/08/29. Multiple profile builds were made
available at that time. New builds of these profiles are made available nighty
at http://archive.dojotoolkit.org/
..FIXME: link to release notes

A complete release schedule is available in the `Dojo Roadmap`_

Code Checkins
----------------

A complete list of checkins may be found through our `checkins mailing list`_

Getting Involved
------------------------

If you would like to contribute to the Dojo project, please contact us through
the `dojo interest mailing list`_.

License
-------

Dojo is licensed under the very friendly `Academic Free License v 2.1`_ or
alternately under the terms of the BSD license should you need to use Dojo with
(L)GPL software. Some `thoughts on the AFL license`_.

Dojo Foundation
---------------

Dojo is a California nonprofit corporation.  We're currently working on 
mundane details like bylaws and tax exemption status.


.. FIXME: insert correct urls, and additional urls to make this more useful

.. _`checkins mailing list`: http://www.dojotoolkit.org/pipermail/dojo-checkins/
.. _`dojo interest mailing list`: http://www.dojotoolkit.org/pipermail/dojo-interest/
.. _`Dojo Roadmap`: http://www.dojotoolkit.org/docs/projectRoadmap.html
.. _`dojo.io` : http://dojotoolkit.org/docs/intro_to_dojo_io.html
.. _`dojo.event` : http://dojotoolkit.org/docs/dojo_event_system.html
.. _`Anonymous SVN access` : http://dojotoolkit.org/svn/dojo/
.. _`Academic Free License v 2.1` : http://opensource.org/licenses/afl-2.1.php
.. _`thoughts on the AFL license` : http://netwindows.org/pipermail/ng-dhtml_netwindows.org/2005-January/000643.html

.. raw:: html
   :file: ../website/rest_template/sidebar.html

.. raw:: html
   :file: ../website/rest_template/docs_menu.html

:Author: Alex Russell,Dylan Schiemann
:Version: 0.5
:Copyright: Dojo Foundation, 2005
:Date: 2006/01/03

.. contents::

.. raw:: html
   :file: ../website/rest_template/footer.html

.. vim:ts=4:et:tw=0:shiftwidth=4:
