.. title:: Dojo 0.2.0 Release Notes

.. raw:: html
   :file: ../website/rest_template/header.html

Introduction
------------

Dojo 0.2.0 is the second major release of Dojo. Since 0.1.0, more than 70 bugs
have been fixed, dozens of features added, and over a thousand commits made to
the project's source control. Major refactoring in many namespaces to make it
even easier to get to the goodies that Dojo makes available.

The full list of closed bugs is available `from the project bug tracker
<http://dojotoolkit.org/trac/query?status=closed&milestone=0.2release>`_.

Highlights
----------
- Dojo is now dual-licensed as AFL and BSD. This means you can use Dojo in
  (L)GPL projects without worry.
- JSON serialization and JSON-RPC support
- Persistent local storage via ``dojo.storage.*``
- Extensive validation support in ``dojo.validate.*`` and ``dojo.regexp.*``
- The new HTML Editor widget and continued improvements to the RichText
  component.
- Firefox 1.5 SVG widget support.
- Significant performance improvements, including further automatic memory leak
  prevention for IE.
- Namespace flattening. Getting at most utility methods should now require much
  less typing.
- Major refactoring of the widget hierarchy to make writing and using cleaner
  and significant feature work on many existing widgets.
- File upload capability in the I/O system for both forms and programmatically
  generated content.
- Working implementations of Blowfish and MD5 in ``dojo.crypto.*``.
- Documentation for many major systems (will be published at
  _`http://manual.dojotoolkit.org`)
- Numerous fixes for the build and package systems to improve performance and
  reliability.
- New widgets galore:
    * Fisheye list
    * Split pane
    * Tree
    * SVG Charts (FF 1.5 only)
    * Layout pane
    * Floating pane ("window")
    * Wizard
    * Accordion

Upgrade Guidelines
------------------

Users of Dojo 0.1.0 will find many APIs moved from their previous locations.
Likewise, many widget implementations have been moved to renderer-specific
files. In both cases, stub files have been left in the old locations where
possible and ``dojo.deprecated`` warnings should inform you of which APIs have
moved and in what version they will be removed. To view these warnings, enable
debugging output::

    <script type="text/javascript">
        djConfig = {
            isDebug: true
        };
    </script>
    <script src="/path/to/dojo.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
    ...

API Stability
-------------

This is an initial release with a "0.x.0" version number. We make no claims for
forward-looking API stability on the main line, however the following sub-point
release (0.2.1) should maintain API compatibility with this release. The next
major release (0.3.0) makes no such guarantees. See the Dojo `bug tracker` for
details on anticipated changes.

Known Issues
------------

- Editor widget creation from a ``<textarea>`` node does not work correctly in
  Safari
- The Editor component does not work on Opera 9 due to a known issue with
  Opera's implementation.
- Several namespaces still lack unit tests
- Several objects in dojo.collections.* fail their unit tests badly

For an up-to-date list, see the Dojo bug tracking system:

http://dojotoolkit.org/trac/

Distributions
-------------

Multiple profile builds of this release are available from:

http://dojotoolkit.org/download/

.. _`bug tracker`: http://dojotoolkit.org/trac/report/6
.. _`Dojo's Source`: http://dojotoolkit.org/svn/dojo/
.. _`Dojo Status`: http://dojotoolkit.org/projectStatus.html
.. _`The Dojo Wiki`: http://dojo.jot.com/

.. raw:: html
   :file: ../website/docs/sidebar.html

Dojo 0.2.0 Release Notes
================================

:Author: Alex Russell
:Version: 0.1
:Copyright: Dojo Foundation, 2005
:Date: 2005/12/15

.. contents::

.. raw:: html
   :file: ../website/docs/menu.html

.. raw:: html
   :file: ../website/rest_template/footer.html

.. vim:ts=4:et:tw=0:shiftwidth=4:
