.TH "AssertionFailedError" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
AssertionFailedError \- Thrown when a test assertion fails. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
Inherits \fBError\fP.
.PP
Inherited by \fBComparisonFailure\fP.
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBAssertionFailedError\fP (\fBString\fP msg, \fBCallStack\fP stack)"
.br
.RI "\fIConstructor.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBmessage\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe error message.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBmCallStack\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe call stack for the message.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBString\fP \fBname\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe name of the AssertionFailedError class as \fBString\fP.\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
Thrown when a test assertion fails.
.PP
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void AssertionFailedError::AssertionFailedError (\fBString\fP msg, \fBCallStack\fP stack)"
.PP
Constructor.
.PP
An AssertionFailedMessage needs a message and a call stack for construction. 
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fImsg\fP\fP
Failure message. 
.TP
\fB\fIstack\fP\fP
The call stack of the assertion. 
.SH "MEMBER DATA DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "int AssertionFailedError::mCallStack"
.PP
The call stack for the message.
.PP
.SS "int AssertionFailedError::message"
.PP
The error message.
.PP
Reimplemented from \fBError\fP.
.SS "\fBString\fP AssertionFailedError::name\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
The name of the AssertionFailedError class as \fBString\fP.
.PP
Reimplemented from \fBError\fP.
.PP
Reimplemented in \fBComparisonFailure\fP.

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
