.TH "BaseTestRunner" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
BaseTestRunner \- General base class for an application running test suites. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
Inherits \fBTestListener\fP.
.PP
Inherited by \fBTestRunner\fP, and \fBTextTestRunner\fP.
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBBaseTestRunner\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBtestEnded\fP (void test)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBaddFailure\fP (\fBTest\fP test, \fBAssertionFailedError\fP afe)"
.br
.RI "\fIImplementation of \fBTestListener\fP.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBgetTest\fP (\fBString\fP name)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the \fBTest\fP corresponding to the given suite.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBclearStatus\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBrunFailed\fP (void msg)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "Object \fBgetPreferences\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieves the Object with the global preferences of any runner.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBsetPreference\fP (\fBString\fP key, Object value)"
.br
.RI "\fISet a global preference.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBsetPreferences\fP (\fBArray\fP prefs)"
.br
.RI "\fISet any runner's global preferences.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBtestStarted\fP (void test)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "Object \fBgetPreference\fP (\fBString\fP key, Object value)"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieve the value of a global preference key.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBtestFailed\fP (void test)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBString\fP \fBtruncate\fP (\fBString\fP str)"
.br
.RI "\fITruncates string to maximum length.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBstartTest\fP (\fBTest\fP test)"
.br
.RI "\fIImplementation of \fBTestListener\fP.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBendTest\fP (\fBTest\fP test)"
.br
.RI "\fIImplementation of \fBTestListener\fP.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBaddError\fP (\fBTest\fP test, \fBError\fP except)"
.br
.RI "\fIImplementation of \fBTestListener\fP.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "Boolean \fBshowStackRaw\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieve the flag for raw stack output.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBmElapsedTime\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBmPreferences\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
General base class for an application running test suites.
.PP
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void BaseTestRunner::BaseTestRunner ()"
.PP
.SH "MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void BaseTestRunner::addError (\fBTest\fP test, \fBError\fP except)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Implementation of \fBTestListener\fP.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItest\fP\fP
The test that had an error. 
.TP
\fB\fIexcept\fP\fP
The thrown error. 
.PP
Implements \fBTestListener\fP.
.SS "void BaseTestRunner::addFailure (\fBTest\fP test, \fBAssertionFailedError\fP afe)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Implementation of \fBTestListener\fP.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItest\fP\fP
The test that had a failure. 
.TP
\fB\fIafe\fP\fP
The thrown failure. 
.PP
Implements \fBTestListener\fP.
.SS "void BaseTestRunner::clearStatus ()"
.PP
.SS "void BaseTestRunner::endTest (\fBTest\fP test)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Implementation of \fBTestListener\fP.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItest\fP\fP
The ended test. 
.PP
Implements \fBTestListener\fP.
.SS "Object BaseTestRunner::getPreference (\fBString\fP key, Object value)"
.PP
Retrieve the value of a global preference key.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIkey\fP\fP
The key of the preference. 
.TP
\fB\fIvalue\fP\fP
The default value. 
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
The value of the key or the default value. 
.SS "Object BaseTestRunner::getPreferences ()"
.PP
Retrieves the Object with the global preferences of any runner.
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
Returns the runner's global preferences. 
.SS "void BaseTestRunner::getTest (\fBString\fP name)"
.PP
Returns the \fBTest\fP corresponding to the given suite.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIname\fP\fP
The name of the test. This is a template method, subclasses override \fBrunFailed\fP(),  \fBclearStatus\fP(). 
.SS "void BaseTestRunner::runFailed (void msg)"
.PP
.SS "void BaseTestRunner::setPreference (\fBString\fP key, Object value)"
.PP
Set a global preference.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIkey\fP\fP
The key of the preference. 
.TP
\fB\fIvalue\fP\fP
The value of the preference. 
.SS "void BaseTestRunner::setPreferences (\fBArray\fP prefs)"
.PP
Set any runner's global preferences.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIprefs\fP\fP
The new preferences. 
.SS "Boolean BaseTestRunner::showStackRaw ()"
.PP
Retrieve the flag for raw stack output.
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
Flag for an unfiltered stack output. 
.SS "void BaseTestRunner::startTest (\fBTest\fP test)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Implementation of \fBTestListener\fP.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItest\fP\fP
The started test. 
.PP
Implements \fBTestListener\fP.
.SS "void BaseTestRunner::testEnded (void test)"
.PP
.SS "void BaseTestRunner::testFailed (void test)"
.PP
.SS "void BaseTestRunner::testStarted (void test)"
.PP
.SS "\fBString\fP BaseTestRunner::truncate (\fBString\fP str)"
.PP
Truncates string to maximum length.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIstr\fP\fP
The string to trancate. 
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
The truncated string. 
.SH "MEMBER DATA DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "int BaseTestRunner::mElapsedTime"
.PP
.SS "int BaseTestRunner::mPreferences\fC [static]\fP"
.PP


.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
