.TH "ClassicResultPrinter" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
ClassicResultPrinter \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
Inherits \fBResultPrinter\fP.
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBClassicResultPrinter\fP (void writer)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprintFooter\fP (\fBTestResult\fP result, Number runTime)"
.br
.RI "\fIWrite a footer at application end with a summary of the tests.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBstartTest\fP (\fBTest\fP test)"
.br
.RI "\fIA test started.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprintHeader\fP (\fBTest\fP test)"
.br
.RI "\fIWrite a header starting the application.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBendTest\fP (\fBTest\fP test)"
.br
.RI "\fIA test ended.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBaddFailure\fP (\fBTest\fP test, \fBError\fP except)"
.br
.RI "\fIAn occured failure was added.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprint\fP (\fBTestResult\fP result, Number runTime)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrint the complete test result.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBaddError\fP (\fBTest\fP test, \fBError\fP except)"
.br
.RI "\fIAn occured error was added.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBwriteLn\fP (\fBString\fP str)"
.br
.RI "\fIWrite a line of text.\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void ClassicResultPrinter::ClassicResultPrinter (void writer)"
.PP
.SH "MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void ClassicResultPrinter::addError (\fBTest\fP test, \fBError\fP except)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
An occured error was added.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItest\fP\fP
The failed test. 
.TP
\fB\fIexcept\fP\fP
The thrown exception. 
.PP
Reimplemented from \fBResultPrinter\fP.
.SS "void ClassicResultPrinter::addFailure (\fBTest\fP test, \fBError\fP except)"
.PP
An occured failure was added.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItest\fP\fP
The failed test. 
.TP
\fB\fIexcept\fP\fP
The thrown exception. 
.SS "void ClassicResultPrinter::endTest (\fBTest\fP test)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
A test ended.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItest\fP\fP
The ended test. 
.PP
Reimplemented from \fBResultPrinter\fP.
.SS "void ClassicResultPrinter::print (\fBTestResult\fP result, Number runTime)"
.PP
Print the complete test result.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIresult\fP\fP
The complete test result. 
.TP
\fB\fIrunTime\fP\fP
The elapsed time in ms. Overloaded, because only the footer is needed. 
.PP
Reimplemented from \fBResultPrinter\fP.
.SS "void ClassicResultPrinter::printFooter (\fBTestResult\fP result, Number runTime)"
.PP
Write a footer at application end with a summary of the tests.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIresult\fP\fP
The result of the test run. 
.TP
\fB\fIrunTime\fP\fP
The elapsed time in ms. 
.SS "void ClassicResultPrinter::printHeader (\fBTest\fP test)"
.PP
Write a header starting the application.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItest\fP\fP
The top level test. 
.SS "void ClassicResultPrinter::startTest (\fBTest\fP test)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
A test started.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItest\fP\fP
The started test. 
.PP
Reimplemented from \fBResultPrinter\fP.
.SS "void ClassicResultPrinter::writeLn (\fBString\fP str)"
.PP
Write a line of text.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIstr\fP\fP
The text to print on the line. The method of this object does effectivly nothing. It must be  overloaded with a proper version, that knows how to print a line, if the script engine cannot be detected (yet). 

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
