.TH "compatibility" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
compatibility \- Compatibility
.PP
The JsUnit library has to use exceptions. Exceptions were part of the third ECMA language draft und therefore not everywhere available. The JsUnit scripts are only available on systems that support exceptions. Additionally the scripts try to expose the call stack in case of an error. This call stack is also subject of compatibility and have changed in various versions of the language implementations of the different vendors. Unfortunately the ECMA definition does not have any concept.
.PP
The \fBJsUtil\fP collection adds also standard objects and methods like h and pop for Arrays or an \fBError\fP class if the implementation of the interpreter lacks it.
.PP
.SH "The Script language"
.PP 
.SS "ECMAScript"
.PP
ECMAScript is the official name of the language commonly called 'JavaScript'. ECMA is an international, industry association and dedicated to the standardization of information and communication systems. The language is specified in the ECMA-262 document currently in the 3rd edition from 1999. This edition introduced exceptions into the language. Unfortunately the standard does not define any functionality or properties to retrieve the call stack.
.PP
.SS "JavaScript"
.PP
JavaScript is the ECMAScript version of Netscape. To be honest, JavaScript was developed by Netscape and introduced with the Netscape 2.0 browser. Starting with JavaScript 1.4 Netscape also implemented the exceptions. Today Mozilla.org is developing in accordance with ECMA a new version 2.0 of JavaScript, that will implement the features of an upcoming 4th edition of the ECMA standard.
.PP
.SS "JScript"
.PP
JScript is the Microsoft's implementation of ECMAScript. The language supports exceptions starting with version 5.0 of JScript. The language was available with Internet Explorer starting with version 5.0, Internet Information Server 5.0 and Windows Scripting Host 2.0. Older versions of the internet explorer or the IIS can be upgraded to a newer JScript engine by upgrading the Windows Script engine (formerly called WSH).
.PP
.SH "JavaScript enabled products"
.PP 
There are a lot of products that are able to process a JavaScript flavor. I have listed all products that I am aware of.
.PP
  \fBProduct\fP \fBVendor\fP \fBJavaScript\fP \fBJsUnit\fP \fBComment\fP   Communique\*` 2.x Day International ECMAScript 1 no no exceptions in this version   Communique\*` Unify (3.x) Day International JavaScript 1.5 yes uses Rhino   Enterprise Server 3.x Netscape JavaScript 1.2 no no exceptions in this version   Flash 5.x Macromedia ActionScript ? ?   Flash MX Macromedia ActionScript ? ?   Internet Explorer 4.x Microsoft JScript 3.0 no no exceptions in this version   Internet Explorer 5.x Microsoft JScript 5.0 yes    Internet Explorer 6.x Microsoft JScript 6.0 yes    Internet Information Server 4.x Microsoft JScript 3.0 no no exceptions in this version   Internet Information Server 5.x Microsoft JScript 5.0 yes    iPlanet Web Server, Enterprise Edition 4.x Sun JavaScript 1.4 yes no call stack support   Konqueror 1.9.8 KDE.org ECMA Script 3 no no support of external script libraries ?   Metamerge Integrator Metamerge JavaScript 1.5 yes uses Rhino   Mozilla 0.8x Mozilla.org JavaScript 1.5 yes    Mozilla 1.x Mozilla.org JavaScript 1.5 yes    SAP Web Application Server SAP ? ?    Navigator 4.x Netscape JavaScript 1.3 no no exceptions in this version   Navigator 6.x Netscape JavaScript 1.5 yes based on Mozilla   Notes 5.x Lotus ? ?    One-to-One 5.x BroadVision JavaScript 1.4 yes OEM version of Netscape   One-to-One 6.x BroadVision ? ? is now J2EE server   Opera 4.x Opera ECMAScript 2 no no exceptions in this version   Opera 5.x Opera ECMAScript 3 no exceptions too buggy and no call stack   Opera 6.x Opera ECMAScript 3 ? ?   Rhino 1.5 Mozilla.org JavaScript 1.5 yes no call stack support   SpiderMonkey 1.5 Mozilla.org JavaScript 1.5 yes no call stack support   Sun ONE (iPlanet) Web Server, Enterprise Edition 6.x Sun - no JavaScript support dropped   Visual InterDev 6.0 Microsoft JScript 5.0 yes    Windows Script 5.x Microsoft JScript 5.x yes    Windows Scripting Host 1.x Microsoft JScript 3.0 no no exceptions in this version   Windows Scripting Host 2.x Microsoft JScript 5.0 yes   
.PP

