.TH "Error" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Error \- Error class according ECMA specification. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
Inherited by \fBAssertionFailedError\fP, and \fBTypeError\fP.
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBError\fP (\fBString\fP msg)"
.br
.RI "\fIConstructor.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBString\fP \fBtoString\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fI\fBString\fP representation of the error.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBString\fP \fBmessage\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe error message.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBString\fP \fBname\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe name of the Error class as \fBString\fP.\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
Error class according ECMA specification.
.PP
This class is only active, if the ECMA implementation of the current engine does not support it or implements it not following the ECMA  standard (3rd edition). 
.PP
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void Error::Error (\fBString\fP msg)"
.PP
Constructor.
.PP
The constructor initializes the \fC\fBmessage\fP\fP member with the argument  \fImsg\fP. 
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fImsg\fP\fP
The error message. 
.SH "MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "\fBString\fP Error::toString ()"
.PP
\fBString\fP representation of the error.
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
Returns a \fC\fBString\fP\fP containing the Error class name  and the error message. 
.PP
Reimplemented in \fBComparisonFailure\fP.
.SH "MEMBER DATA DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "\fBString\fP Error::message"
.PP
The error message.
.PP
Reimplemented in \fBAssertionFailedError\fP, \fBInterfaceDefinitionError\fP, and \fBPrinterWriterError\fP.
.SS "\fBString\fP Error::name\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
The name of the Error class as \fBString\fP.
.PP
Reimplemented in \fBAssertionFailedError\fP, \fBComparisonFailure\fP, \fBInterfaceDefinitionError\fP, \fBTypeError\fP, and \fBPrinterWriterError\fP.

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
