.TH "HTMLWriterFilter" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
HTMLWriterFilter \- A filter for a \fBPrinterWriter\fP encoding HTML. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
Inherits \fBPrinterWriter\fP.
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBHTMLWriterFilter\fP (\fBPrinterWriter\fP writer)"
.br
.RI "\fIConstructor.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBPrinterWriter\fP \fBgetWriter\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the wrapped \fBPrinterWriter\fP.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fB_flush\fP (void str)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBsetWriter\fP (\fBPrinterWriter\fP writer)"
.br
.RI "\fISets the \fBPrinterWriter\fP to wrap.\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
A filter for a \fBPrinterWriter\fP encoding HTML.
.PP
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void HTMLWriterFilter::HTMLWriterFilter (\fBPrinterWriter\fP writer)"
.PP
Constructor.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIwriter\fP\fP
The writer to filter. The constructor accepts the writer to wrap. 
.SH "MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void HTMLWriterFilter::_flush (void str)"
.PP
Reimplemented from \fBPrinterWriter\fP.
.SS "\fBPrinterWriter\fP HTMLWriterFilter::getWriter ()"
.PP
Returns the wrapped \fBPrinterWriter\fP.
.PP
.SS "void HTMLWriterFilter::setWriter (\fBPrinterWriter\fP writer)"
.PP
Sets the \fBPrinterWriter\fP to wrap.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIwriter\fP\fP
The writer to filter. If the argument is omitted a \fBStringWriter\fP is created and wrapped. 

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
