.TH "InterfaceDefinitionError" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
InterfaceDefinitionError \- InterfaceDefinitionError class. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
Inherits \fBTypeError\fP.
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBInterfaceDefinitionError\fP (\fBString\fP msg)"
.br
.RI "\fIConstructor.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBmessage\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe error message.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBString\fP \fBname\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe name of the InterfaceDefinitionError class as \fBString\fP.\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
InterfaceDefinitionError class.
.PP
This error class is used for interface definitions. Such definitions are  simulated using \fBFunction::fulfills\fP. The class has no explicit functionality despite the separate type 
.PP
\fBSee also: \fP
.in +1c
\fBFunction::fulfills\fP 
.PP
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void InterfaceDefinitionError::InterfaceDefinitionError (\fBString\fP msg)"
.PP
Constructor.
.PP
The constructor initializes the \fC\fBmessage\fP\fP member with the argument  \fImsg\fP. 
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fImsg\fP\fP
The error message. 
.SH "MEMBER DATA DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "int InterfaceDefinitionError::message"
.PP
The error message.
.PP
Reimplemented from \fBError\fP.
.SS "\fBString\fP InterfaceDefinitionError::name\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
The name of the InterfaceDefinitionError class as \fBString\fP.
.PP
Reimplemented from \fBTypeError\fP.

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
