.TH "JsUtil" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
JsUtil \- Helper class with static flags. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBJsUtil\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBSystemWriter\fP \fBgetSystemWriter\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the \fBSystemWriter\fP.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBString\fP \fBinclude\fP (\fBString\fP fname)"
.br
.RI "\fIIncludes a JavaScript file.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBFunction\fP \fBgetCaller\fP (\fBFunction\fP fn)"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieve the caller of a function.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBquit\fP (Number exit)"
.br
.RI "\fIQuits the JavaScript engine.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "Boolean \fBhasCallStackSupport\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIFlag for call stack support.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBSystemWriter\fP \fBmWriter\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe \fBSystemWriter\fP.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "Boolean \fBisJScript\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIFlag for Microsoft JScript.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "Boolean \fBisMozillaShell\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIFlag for a Mozilla JavaScript shell.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "Boolean \fBisRhino\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIFlag for Rhino.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBhasCompatibleErrorClass\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "Boolean \fBisShell\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIFlag for a command line shell.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "Boolean \fBisWSH\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIFlag for Microsoft Windows Scripting Host.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "Boolean \fBisNSServer\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIFlag for Netscape Enterprise Server (iPlanet) engine.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "Boolean \fBisBrowser\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIFlag for a browser.\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
Helper class with static flags.
.PP
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void JsUtil::JsUtil ()"
.PP
.SH "MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "\fBFunction\fP JsUtil::getCaller (\fBFunction\fP fn)"
.PP
Retrieve the caller of a function.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIfn\fP\fP
The function to examine. 
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
The caller as \fBFunction\fP or undefined. 
.SS "\fBSystemWriter\fP JsUtil::getSystemWriter ()"
.PP
Returns the \fBSystemWriter\fP.
.PP
Instanciates a \fBSystemWriter\fP depending on the current JavaScript engine. Works for command line shells WSH, Rhino and SpiderMonkey. 
.SS "\fBString\fP JsUtil::include (\fBString\fP fname)"
.PP
Includes a JavaScript file.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIfname\fP\fP
The file name. Loads the content of a JavaScript file into a \fBString\fP that has to be evaluated. Works for command line shells WSH, Rhino and SpiderMonkey. 
.PP
\fBNote: \fP
.in +1c
This function is highly quirky. While WSH works as expected, the Mozilla shells will evaluate the file immediately and add any symbols to the global name space and return just 'true'. Therefore you have to  evaluate the returned string for WSH at global level also. Otherwise the function is not portable. 
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
The JavaScript code to be evaluated. 
.SS "void JsUtil::quit (Number exit)"
.PP
Quits the JavaScript engine.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIexit\fP\fP
The exit code. Stops current JavaScript engine and returns an exit code. Works for  command line shells WSH, Rhino and SpiderMonkey. 
.SH "MEMBER DATA DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "Boolean JsUtil::hasCallStackSupport\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
Flag for call stack support.
.PP
The member is true, if the engine provides call stack info. 
.SS "int JsUtil::hasCompatibleErrorClass\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
.SS "Boolean JsUtil::isBrowser\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
Flag for a browser.
.PP
The member is true, if the script runs within a browser environment. 
.SS "Boolean JsUtil::isJScript\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
Flag for Microsoft JScript.
.PP
The member is true, if the script runs in the Microsoft JScript engine. 
.SS "Boolean JsUtil::isMozillaShell\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
Flag for a Mozilla JavaScript shell.
.PP
The member is true, if the script runs in a command line shell of a Mozilla.org script engine (either SpiderMonkey or Rhino). 
.SS "Boolean JsUtil::isNSServer\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
Flag for Netscape Enterprise Server (iPlanet) engine.
.PP
The member is true, if the script runs in the iPlanet as SSJS. 
.SS "Boolean JsUtil::isRhino\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
Flag for Rhino.
.PP
The member is true, if the script runs in Rhino of Mozilla.org. 
.SS "Boolean JsUtil::isShell\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
Flag for a command line shell.
.PP
The member is true, if the script runs in a command line shell. 
.SS "Boolean JsUtil::isWSH\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
Flag for Microsoft Windows Scripting Host.
.PP
The member is true, if the script runs in the Microsoft Windows Scripting Host. 
.SS "\fBSystemWriter\fP JsUtil::mWriter\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
The \fBSystemWriter\fP.
.PP
\fBSee also: \fP
.in +1c
\fBgetSystemWriter\fP 

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
