.TH "JsUtil.js" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
JsUtil.js \- Utility classes needed for the JsUnit classes. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Compounds"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBArray\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIStandard ECMA class.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBCallStack\fP"
.br
.RI "\fICallStack object.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBError\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIError class according ECMA specification.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBFunction\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIStandard ECMA class.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBHTMLWriterFilter\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA filter for a \fBPrinterWriter\fP encoding HTML.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBInterfaceDefinitionError\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIInterfaceDefinitionError class.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBJsUtil\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIHelper class with static flags.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBPrinterWriter\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA PrinterWriter is an abstract base class for printing text.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBPrinterWriterError\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPrinterWriterError class.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBString\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIStandard ECMA class.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBStringWriter\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe \fBPrinterWriter\fP into a \fBString\fP.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBSystemWriter\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe \fBPrinterWriter\fP of the JavaScript engine.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBTypeError\fP"
.br
.RI "\fITypeError class according ECMA specification.\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
Utility classes needed for the JsUnit classes.
.PP
 JsUnit need several helper classes to work properly. This file conatins anything that is not related directly to JsUnit, but may be useful in other environments, too.
.PP
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
