.TH "PrinterWriter" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
PrinterWriter \- A PrinterWriter is an abstract base class for printing text. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
Inherited by \fBHTMLWriterFilter\fP, \fBStringWriter\fP, and \fBSystemWriter\fP.
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBPrinterWriter\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fB_flush\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprintln\fP (Object data)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints a line into the writer.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprint\fP (Object data)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints into the writer.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBflush\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIFlushes the writer.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBclose\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fICloses the writer.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBmClosed\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBmBuffer\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
A PrinterWriter is an abstract base class for printing text.
.PP
\fBNote: \fP
.in +1c
This is a helper construct to support different writers in  \fBResultPrinter\fP e.g. depending on the JavaScript engine. 
.PP
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void PrinterWriter::PrinterWriter ()"
.PP
.SH "MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void PrinterWriter::_flush (void)"
.PP
Reimplemented in \fBStringWriter\fP, \fBSystemWriter\fP, and \fBHTMLWriterFilter\fP.
.SS "void PrinterWriter::close ()"
.PP
Closes the writer.
.PP
After closing the steam no further writing is allowed. Multiple calls to close should be allowed. 
.PP
Reimplemented in \fBSystemWriter\fP.
.SS "void PrinterWriter::flush ()"
.PP
Flushes the writer.
.PP
Writes any buffered data to the underlaying output stream system immediatly. 
.PP
Exceptions: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fI\fBPrinterWriterError\fP\fP\fP
 If flush was called after closing. 
.SS "void PrinterWriter::print (Object data)"
.PP
Prints into the writer.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIdata\fP\fP
The data to print as \fBString\fP. 
.PP
Exceptions: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fI\fBPrinterWriterError\fP\fP\fP
 If print was called after closing. 
.SS "void PrinterWriter::println (Object data)"
.PP
Prints a line into the writer.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIdata\fP\fP
The data to print as \fBString\fP. 
.PP
Exceptions: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fI\fBPrinterWriterError\fP\fP\fP
 If println was called after closing. 
.SH "MEMBER DATA DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "int PrinterWriter::mBuffer"
.PP
.SS "int PrinterWriter::mClosed"
.PP


.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
