.TH "RepeatedTest" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
RepeatedTest \- A Decorator that runs a test repeatedly. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
Inherits \fBTestDecorator\fP.
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBRepeatedTest\fP (\fBTest\fP test, Number repeat)"
.br
.RI "\fIConstructor.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBrun\fP (\fBTestResult\fP result)"
.br
.RI "\fIRuns a test case with additional set up and tear down.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBcountTestCases\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the number of the test cases.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBtoString\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the test as string.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBmTimesRepeat\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
A Decorator that runs a test repeatedly.
.PP
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void RepeatedTest::RepeatedTest (\fBTest\fP test, Number repeat)"
.PP
Constructor.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItest\fP\fP
The test to repeat. 
.TP
\fB\fIrepeat\fP\fP
The number of repeats. 
.SH "MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void RepeatedTest::countTestCases ()\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Returns the number of the test cases.
.PP
Reimplemented from \fBTestDecorator\fP.
.SS "void RepeatedTest::run (\fBTestResult\fP result)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Runs a test case with additional set up and tear down.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIresult\fP\fP
The result set. 
.PP
Reimplemented from \fBTestDecorator\fP.
.SS "void RepeatedTest::toString ()"
.PP
Returns the test as string.
.PP
\fBNote: \fP
.in +1c
This is an enhancement to JUnit 3.8 
.PP
Reimplemented from \fBTestDecorator\fP.
.SH "MEMBER DATA DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "int RepeatedTest::mTimesRepeat"
.PP


.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
