.TH "TestRunner" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TestRunner \- TestRunner of JsUnit 1.1. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
Inherits \fBBaseTestRunner\fP.
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBTestRunner\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBrun\fP (\fBString\fP name, \fBTestResult\fP result)"
.br
.RI "\fIRuns all test of all suites and collects their results in a \fBTestResult\fP instance.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBaddSuite\fP (\fBTestSuite\fP suite)"
.br
.RI "\fIAdd a test suite to the application.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "Number \fBcountTestCases\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fICounts the number of test cases that will be run by this test application.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBrunAll\fP (\fBTestResult\fP result)"
.br
.RI "\fIRuns all test of all suites and collects their results in a \fBTestResult\fP instance.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBmSuites\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
TestRunner of JsUnit 1.1.
.PP
\fBDeprecated: \fP
.in +1c
.PP
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void TestRunner::TestRunner ()"
.PP
.SH "MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void TestRunner::addSuite (\fBTestSuite\fP suite)"
.PP
Add a test suite to the application.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIsuite\fP\fP
The suite to add. 
.SS "Number TestRunner::countTestCases ()"
.PP
Counts the number of test cases that will be run by this test application.
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
The number of test cases. 
.SS "void TestRunner::run (\fBString\fP name, \fBTestResult\fP result)"
.PP
Runs all test of all suites and collects their results in a \fBTestResult\fP instance.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIname\fP\fP
The name of the test. 
.TP
\fB\fIresult\fP\fP
The test result to fill. 
.SS "void TestRunner::runAll (\fBTestResult\fP result)"
.PP
Runs all test of all suites and collects their results in a \fBTestResult\fP instance.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIresult\fP\fP
The test result to fill. 
.SH "MEMBER DATA DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "int TestRunner::mSuites"
.PP


.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
