.TH "TestFailure" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TestFailure \- A TestFailure collects a failed test together with the caught exception. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBTestFailure\fP (\fBTest\fP test, \fBError\fP except)"
.br
.RI "\fIConstructor.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBString\fP \fBtrace\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieve the stack trace.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "Boolean \fBisFailure\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fI\fBTest\fP for a JsUnit failure.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBTest\fP \fBthrownException\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieve the thrown exception.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBTest\fP \fBfailedTest\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieve the failed test.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBString\fP \fBexceptionMessage\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieve the exception message.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBString\fP \fBtoString\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieve failure as string.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBmException\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBmTest\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
A TestFailure collects a failed test together with the caught exception.
.PP
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void TestFailure::TestFailure (\fBTest\fP test, \fBError\fP except)"
.PP
Constructor.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItest\fP\fP
The failed test. 
.TP
\fB\fIexcept\fP\fP
The thrown error of the exception 
.PP
\fBSee also: \fP
.in +1c
\fBTestResult\fP 
.SH "MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "\fBString\fP TestFailure::exceptionMessage ()"
.PP
Retrieve the exception message.
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
Returns the exception message. 
.SS "\fBTest\fP TestFailure::failedTest ()"
.PP
Retrieve the failed test.
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
Returns the failed test. 
.SS "Boolean TestFailure::isFailure ()"
.PP
\fBTest\fP for a JsUnit failure.
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
Returns true if the exception is a failure. 
.SS "\fBTest\fP TestFailure::thrownException ()"
.PP
Retrieve the thrown exception.
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
Returns the thrown exception. 
.SS "\fBString\fP TestFailure::toString ()"
.PP
Retrieve failure as string.
.PP
Slightly enhanced message format compared to JsUnit 3.7. 
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
Returns the error message. 
.SS "\fBString\fP TestFailure::trace ()"
.PP
Retrieve the stack trace.
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
Returns stack trace (if available). 
.SH "MEMBER DATA DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "int TestFailure::mException"
.PP
.SS "int TestFailure::mTest"
.PP


.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
