.TH "Test" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Test \- A test can be run and collect its results. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
Inherited by \fBTestCase\fP, \fBTestDecorator\fP, and \fBTestSuite\fP.
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "virtual void \fBTest\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "virtual \fBTestResult\fP \fBrun\fP (\fBTestResult\fP result)"
.br
.RI "\fIRuns the test.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "virtual Test \fBfindTest\fP (\fBString\fP testName)"
.br
.RI "\fISearch a test by name.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "virtual Number \fBcountTestCases\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fICounts the number of test cases that will be run by this test.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "virtual \fBString\fP \fBgetName\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieves the name of the test.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "virtual void \fBsetName\fP (\fBString\fP testName)"
.br
.RI "\fISets the name of the test.\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
A test can be run and collect its results.
.PP
\fBNote: \fP
.in +1c
Additional to JsUnit 3.8 the test has always a name. The interface requires a getter and a setter and a method to search for tests. 
.PP
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "virtual void Test::Test ()\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
.SH "MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "virtual Number Test::countTestCases ()\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Counts the number of test cases that will be run by this test.
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
The number of test cases. 
.PP
Implemented in \fBTestSuite\fP, \fBTestDecorator\fP, \fBRepeatedTest\fP, and \fBTestCase\fP.
.SS "virtual Test Test::findTest (\fBString\fP testName)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Search a test by name.
.PP
The function compares the given name with the name of the test and  returns its own instance if the name is equal. 
.PP
\fBNote: \fP
.in +1c
This is an enhancement to JUnit 3.8 
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItestName\fP\fP
The name of the searched test. 
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
The test instance itself of null. 
.PP
Implemented in \fBTestSuite\fP, \fBTestDecorator\fP, and \fBTestCase\fP.
.SS "virtual \fBString\fP Test::getName ()\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Retrieves the name of the test.
.PP
\fBNote: \fP
.in +1c
This is an enhancement to JUnit 3.8 
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
The name of test. 
.PP
Implemented in \fBTestSuite\fP, \fBTestDecorator\fP, and \fBTestCase\fP.
.SS "virtual \fBTestResult\fP Test::run (\fBTestResult\fP result)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Runs the test.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIresult\fP\fP
The result to fill. 
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
The result of test cases. 
.PP
Implemented in \fBTestSuite\fP, \fBTestDecorator\fP, \fBTestSetup\fP, \fBRepeatedTest\fP, and \fBTestCase\fP.
.SS "virtual void Test::setName (\fBString\fP testName)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Sets the name of the test.
.PP
\fBNote: \fP
.in +1c
This is an enhancement to JUnit 3.8 
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItestName\fP\fP
The new name of the test. 
.PP
Implemented in \fBTestSuite\fP, \fBTestDecorator\fP, and \fBTestCase\fP.

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
