.TH "TestListener" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TestListener \- A listener for test progress. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
Inherited by \fBBaseTestRunner\fP, \fBResultPrinter\fP, and \fBTestResult\fP.
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "virtual void \fBTestListener\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "virtual void \fBstartTest\fP (\fBTest\fP test)"
.br
.RI "\fIA test started.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "virtual void \fBendTest\fP (\fBTest\fP test)"
.br
.RI "\fIA test ended.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "virtual void \fBaddFailure\fP (\fBTest\fP test, \fBAssertionFailedError\fP afe)"
.br
.RI "\fIAn occured failure was added.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "virtual void \fBaddError\fP (\fBTest\fP test, \fBError\fP except)"
.br
.RI "\fIAn occured error was added.\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
A listener for test progress.
.PP
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "virtual void TestListener::TestListener ()\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
.SH "MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "virtual void TestListener::addError (\fBTest\fP test, \fBError\fP except)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
An occured error was added.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItest\fP\fP
The failed test. 
.TP
\fB\fIexcept\fP\fP
The thrown error. 
.PP
Implemented in \fBClassicResultPrinter\fP, \fBResultPrinter\fP, \fBBaseTestRunner\fP, and \fBTestResult\fP.
.SS "virtual void TestListener::addFailure (\fBTest\fP test, \fBAssertionFailedError\fP afe)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
An occured failure was added.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItest\fP\fP
The failed test. 
.TP
\fB\fIafe\fP\fP
The thrown assertion failure. 
.PP
Implemented in \fBResultPrinter\fP, \fBBaseTestRunner\fP, and \fBTestResult\fP.
.SS "virtual void TestListener::endTest (\fBTest\fP test)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
A test ended.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItest\fP\fP
The ended test. 
.PP
Implemented in \fBClassicResultPrinter\fP, \fBResultPrinter\fP, \fBBaseTestRunner\fP, and \fBTestResult\fP.
.SS "virtual void TestListener::startTest (\fBTest\fP test)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
A test started.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItest\fP\fP
The started test. 
.PP
Implemented in \fBClassicResultPrinter\fP, \fBResultPrinter\fP, \fBBaseTestRunner\fP, and \fBTestResult\fP.

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
