.TH "TestSetup" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TestSetup \- A Decorator to set up and tear down additional fixture state. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
Inherits \fBTestDecorator\fP.
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBTestSetup\fP (\fBTest\fP test)"
.br
.RI "\fIConstructor.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBrun\fP (\fBTestResult\fP result)"
.br
.RI "\fIRuns a test case with additional set up and tear down.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBsetUp\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fISets up the fixture.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBtearDown\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fITears down the fixture.\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
A Decorator to set up and tear down additional fixture state.
.PP
Subclass TestSetup and insert it into your tests when you want to set up additional state once before the tests are run. 
.PP
\fBSee also: \fP
.in +1c
\fBTestCase\fP 
.PP
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void TestSetup::TestSetup (\fBTest\fP test)"
.PP
Constructor.
.PP
The constructore saves the test. 
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItest\fP\fP
The test to decorate. 
.SH "MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void TestSetup::run (\fBTestResult\fP result)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Runs a test case with additional set up and tear down.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIresult\fP\fP
The result set. 
.PP
Reimplemented from \fBTestDecorator\fP.
.SS "void TestSetup::setUp ()"
.PP
Sets up the fixture.
.PP
Override to set up additional fixture state. 
.SS "void TestSetup::tearDown ()"
.PP
Tears down the fixture.
.PP
Override to tear down the additional fixture state. 

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
