.TH "TestDecorator" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TestDecorator \- A Decorator for Tests. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
Inherits \fBAssert\fP, and \fBTest\fP.
.PP
Inherited by \fBRepeatedTest\fP, and \fBTestSetup\fP.
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBTestDecorator\fP (\fBTest\fP test)"
.br
.RI "\fIConstructor.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBTest\fP \fBgetTest\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns name the decorated test.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBString\fP \fBgetName\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns name of the test.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBsetName\fP (\fBString\fP name)"
.br
.RI "\fISets name of the test.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBrun\fP (\fBTestResult\fP result)"
.br
.RI "\fIRun the test.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBbasicRun\fP (\fBTestResult\fP result)"
.br
.RI "\fIThe basic run behaviour.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "Number \fBcountTestCases\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the number of the test cases.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBTest\fP \fBfindTest\fP (\fBString\fP name)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the test if it matches the name.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBString\fP \fBtoString\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the test as string.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBmTest\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
A Decorator for Tests.
.PP
Use TestDecorator as the base class for defining new test decorators. \fBTest\fP decorator subclasses can be introduced to add behaviour before or after a test is run. 
.PP
\fBSee also: \fP
.in +1c
\fBTest\fP 
.PP
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void TestDecorator::TestDecorator (\fBTest\fP test)"
.PP
Constructor.
.PP
The constructore saves the test. 
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItest\fP\fP
The test to decorate. 
.SH "MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void TestDecorator::basicRun (\fBTestResult\fP result)"
.PP
The basic run behaviour.
.PP
The function calls the run method of the decorated test. 
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIresult\fP\fP
The test result. 
.SS "Number TestDecorator::countTestCases ()\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Returns the number of the test cases.
.PP
Implements \fBTest\fP.
.PP
Reimplemented in \fBRepeatedTest\fP.
.SS "\fBTest\fP TestDecorator::findTest (\fBString\fP name)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Returns the test if it matches the name.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIname\fP\fP
The searched test name. 
.PP
Implements \fBTest\fP.
.SS "\fBString\fP TestDecorator::getName ()\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Returns name of the test.
.PP
\fBNote: \fP
.in +1c
This is an enhancement to JUnit 3.8 
.PP
Implements \fBTest\fP.
.SS "\fBTest\fP TestDecorator::getTest ()"
.PP
Returns name the decorated test.
.PP
\fBNote: \fP
.in +1c
This is an enhancement to JUnit 3.8 
.SS "void TestDecorator::run (\fBTestResult\fP result)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Run the test.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIresult\fP\fP
The test result. 
.PP
Implements \fBTest\fP.
.PP
Reimplemented in \fBTestSetup\fP, and \fBRepeatedTest\fP.
.SS "void TestDecorator::setName (\fBString\fP name)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Sets name of the test.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIname\fP\fP
The new name of the test. 
.PP
Implements \fBTest\fP.
.SS "\fBString\fP TestDecorator::toString ()"
.PP
Returns the test as string.
.PP
\fBNote: \fP
.in +1c
This is an enhancement to JUnit 3.8 
.PP
Reimplemented in \fBRepeatedTest\fP.
.SH "MEMBER DATA DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "int TestDecorator::mTest"
.PP


.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
