.TH "TextTestRunner" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TextTestRunner \- Class for an application running test suites with a test based status report. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
Inherits \fBBaseTestRunner\fP.
.PP
Inherited by \fBCtxTestRunner\fP, \fBHTMLTestRunner\fP, and \fBNSServerTestRunner\fP.
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBTextTestRunner\fP (Object outdev)"
.br
.RI "\fIThe constructor.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBTestResult\fP \fBrun\fP (Object test)"
.br
.RI "\fIRuns a single test or a suite extracted from a \fBTestCase\fP subclass.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBTestResult\fP \fBcreateTestResult\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fICreates an instance of a \fBTestResult\fP to be used for the test run.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBTestResult\fP \fBstart\fP (Object args)"
.br
.RI "\fIStarts a test run.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBmain\fP (\fBArray\fP< \fBString\fP > args)"
.br
.RI "\fIProgram entry point.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "Number \fBsetPrinter\fP (Object outdev)"
.br
.RI "\fISet printer.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBTestResult\fP \fBdoRun\fP (\fBTest\fP test)"
.br
.RI "\fIExecutes a test run with the given test.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "Number \fBrunFailed\fP (\fBString\fP msg)"
.br
.RI "\fIRun failed.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "Number \fBEXCEPTION_EXIT\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIExit code, when at least one test fails with an error.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "Number \fBSUCCESS_EXIT\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIExit code, when all tests succeed.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "Number \fBFAILURE_EXIT\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIExit code, when at least one test fails with a failure.\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
Class for an application running test suites with a test based status report.
.PP
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void TextTestRunner::TextTestRunner (Object outdev)"
.PP
The constructor.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIoutdev\fP\fP
Output device The \fBTestRunner\fP is initialized with the given output device. This may be an instance of a \fBResultPrinter\fP, a \fBPrinterWriter\fP or undefined. For a  \fBPrinterWriter\fP the constructor creates a new instance of a standard  \fBResultPrinter\fP with this \fBPrinterWriter\fP. If \fIoutdev\fP is undefined it creates a \fBResultPrinter\fP with the \fBSystemWriter\fP. 
.SH "MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "\fBTestResult\fP TextTestRunner::createTestResult ()"
.PP
Creates an instance of a \fBTestResult\fP to be used for the test run.
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
Returns the new \fBTestResult\fP instance. 
.SS "\fBTestResult\fP TextTestRunner::doRun (\fBTest\fP test)"
.PP
Executes a test run with the given test.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItest\fP\fP
The test. 
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
The result of the test. 
.SS "void TextTestRunner::main (\fBArray\fP< \fBString\fP > args)"
.PP
Program entry point.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIargs\fP\fP
Program arguments. The function will create a TextTestRunner or the \fBTestRunner\fP given by the preference '\fBTestRunner\fP' and run the tests given by the arguments. The  function will exit the program with an error code indicating the type of success. 
.SS "\fBTestResult\fP TextTestRunner::run (Object test)"
.PP
Runs a single test or a suite extracted from a \fBTestCase\fP subclass.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItest\fP\fP
The class to test or a test. This static method can be used to start a test run from your program. 
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
The result of the test. 
.SS "Number TextTestRunner::runFailed (\fBString\fP msg)"
.PP
Run failed.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fImsg\fP\fP
The failure message. 
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
TextTestRunner.FAILURE_EXIT. 
.SS "Number TextTestRunner::setPrinter (Object outdev)"
.PP
Set printer.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIoutdev\fP\fP
Output device 
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
TextTestRunner.FAILURE_EXIT. 
.PP
Reimplemented in \fBHTMLTestRunner\fP.
.SS "\fBTestResult\fP TextTestRunner::start (Object args)"
.PP
Starts a test run.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIargs\fP\fP
The (optional) arguments as \fBArray\fP or \fBString\fP 
.PP
Exceptions: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIUsage\fP\fP
 If an unknown option is used Analyzes the command line arguments and runs the given test suite. If no argument was given, the function tries to run AllTests.suite(). 
.SH "MEMBER DATA DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "Number TextTestRunner::EXCEPTION_EXIT\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
Exit code, when at least one test fails with an error.
.PP
.SS "Number TextTestRunner::FAILURE_EXIT\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
Exit code, when at least one test fails with a failure.
.PP
.SS "Number TextTestRunner::SUCCESS_EXIT\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
Exit code, when all tests succeed.
.PP


.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
