.. title:: Dojo 0.1.0 Release Notes

.. raw:: html
   :file: website/rest_template/header.html

Introduction
------------

Dojo 0.1.0 is the first full release of Dojo by the Dojo Foundation. It has
been a year in development, and we believe that even in it's 0.1 state, Dojo is
the best tool for building dynamic web application interfaces.

Since this is the first public release, the closed bugs will not be listed in
these notes, but they can be viewed in the projects `bug tracker`_.

Highlights
----------
- A mature, easy to use, and well tested `IO abstraction layer`_. 
- A unified `event system`_. With Dojo, you stop worrying about what is a DOM Node
  and what isn't. You just `connect()`.
- A capable, flexible `widget system`_ that degrades gracefully be default and
  allows end-to-end markup-based development. Dojo widgets give you fast
  prototyping capabilities and transparent support for deployment-time
  optimization.
- Package and build systems that work together to  make developing large
  applications easier and deploying them straightforward. No more
  head-scratching when it comes to optimizing for deployment.
- Animation and effects packages that are second to none. Using Dojo's
  animation packages, you do everything from creating complex path based
  animations to smoothly fading out parts of your pages. Most of the effects
  can be kicked off with a single line of code.
- Drag and Drop support that doesn't cut corners. Dojo's Drag and Drop APIs do
  the right thing and let you plug your own behaviors in. Build apps with drag
  and drop, not lists.
- A *stable*, cross-browser inline WYSIWYG editor component. What point are
  features if your editor crashes the browser?
- A combo-box (nee, "live search") widget
- A date-picker widget

And there's even more in this release. From functional-style programming
constructs (`dojo.alg` and `dojo.lang`) to a normalizing markup-to-JavaScript
parser, Dojo is packed full of goodies.

Upgrade Guidelines
------------------

This is the intial release. If you've been using Dojo off of HEAD prior to this
release, you probably already know what you need to do.

API Stability
-------------

This is an initial release with a "0.x.0" version number. We make no claims for
forward-looking API stability on the main line. Things WILL change.

Known Issues
------------

See the Dojo bug tracking system:

http://dojotoolkit.org/trac/

Distributions
-------------

Multiple profile builds of this release are available from:

http://dojotoolkit.org/download/

About The Author
#########################

Alex Russell, a core contributor to Dojo, can be reached at
<alex@dojotoolkit.org>. His blog is at: http://alex.nWidgets.com

.. _`IO abstraction layer`: http://dojotoolkit.org/docs/intro_to_dojo_io.html
.. _`event system`: http://dojotoolkit.org/docs/dojo_event_system.html
.. _`widget system`: http://dojotoolkit.org/docs/fast_widget_authoring.html
.. _`bug tracker`: http://dojotoolkit.org/trac/report/6
.. _`Dojo's Source`: http://dojotoolkit.org/svn/dojo/
.. _`Dojo Status`: http://dojotoolkit.org/projectStatus.html
.. _`The Dojo Wiki`: http://dojo.jot.com/

.. raw:: html
   :file: website/rest_template/sidebar.html

Dojo 0.1.0 Release Notes
================================

:Author: Alex Russell
:Version: 0.1
:Copyright: Dojo Foundation, 2005
:Date: 2005/08/30

.. contents::

.. raw:: html
   :file: website/rest_template/footer.html

.. vim:ts=4:et:tw=0:shiftwidth=4:
