.. title:: The Dojo Roadmap

Status
------------------------

Dojo is currently in heavy development. As you can glean from the list of
modules in the roadmap, we have finished a significant portion of the core
"plumbing" for the project, and we also have our first widget, a button, that
can be constructed from markup in HTML and SVG namespaces. We have also shipped
an `initial profile build`_, and a supporting article, `baking usability into
XMLHTTP`_

We still have a lot of work to do on making our widget system better,
especially in the world of SVG, but good SVG widget support will come later
rather than sooner. The current SVG button could be described as hacky at best.
A button is a surprisingly complex widget, at least if it is done with any sort
of sane flexibility and constraints.

Other things we are actively working on include our event, IO, and data binding
systems. This makes Dojo an excellent toolkit for sending messages and data
between the client and server, and between components in the client. Ongoing
improvements and refinements are being made to our xml declaration language
(specifically to support contraints and state) and parser. The parser currently
supports the most necessary markup constructs, with space to later saccomodate
more elaborate declaration mechanisms.

The Plan
-------------------

What follows is highly provisional. If a feature is important to you, make it
known on the `dojo interest mailing list`_.

0.2.2
******************************************

Proposed release date: January 14, 2006 

Fix `0.2.x bugs`_

.. _`0.2.x bugs`: http://dojotoolkit.org/trac/report/10

0.3 "The Widget Release"
******************************************

Proposed release date: February 28, 2006 

Core:
- Performance improvements/profiling
- Provide better/simpler APIs for inheritance (public facing APIs are a bit 
  challenging)
- crypto
- SVG layout calculations, etc.
- xhtml issues/testing (to support nested svg widgets, etc.)
- hostenvs for dashboard, canvas

Widgets:
- Widget Refactoring
  + public facing APIs
	+ widget template improvements
  + inheritance simplifications
	+ css-interning
	+ making it easier to specify an external css document, etc.)
	+ etc.
- Widget API cleanup/unification
- Default widget styles (should have at least 2 default themes)
- SVG widget facility improvements
- Begin VML compatibility layer
- New widgets
	+ Base widgets/container widgets
	+ Start Grid widget, data binding (large number of people)
	+ SVG Color Picker widget(s)
	+ Validation widgets
	+ Other widgets as contributed by the community
- Guide on writing widgets
- Guide on debugging widgets

0.3.1
******************************************

Proposed release date: March 14, 2006 

0.3.x bug fixes

0.3.2 (if needed)
******************************************

Proposed release date: March 31, 2006 

0.3.x bug fixes

0.4 "The Performance Release"
********************************************

Proposed release date: April 30, 2006

Core:
- better logging/debugging
- js linker/better packaging
- Add many missing aspects to the parser
- Drag-n-Drop corner and edge cases
- Fill out missing/lacking portions of core APIs
- keystroke event handlers?
.. FIXME: expand upon this

Widgets:
- first release of data grid/data binding
- start work on expression-based UI constraints
- port some html widgets to svg to better test SVG support
- new widgets
  + SVG clock style time picker
.. FIXME: are the following two already done?
  + Accordion widget
  + basic menu widgets
  + Other widgets as contributed by the community

0.4.1
******************************************

Proposed release date: May 15, 2006 

0.4.x bug fixes

0.4.2 (if needed)
******************************************

Proposed release date: May 31, 2006 

0.5 "The Comet Release"
******************************************

Proposed release date: June 30, 2006 

Core:
- advanced data binding
- advanced I/O support
- support for things missing from declaration
- clean up dojo namespace issues, provide DTD or schema

Widgets: 
- data binding support for other widgets types
- Other widgets as contributed by the community
- basic i8ln support
- Support for SVG on other platforms as it becomes more viable


Beyond 0.5
**********************

Past 0.5, we will be implementing what the
community has use for and need of. 1.0 is still a while away, and at about the 
0.5 milestone, a re-evaluation of goals and acheivements will take place which 
will allow the project contributors to then take stock of the situation and 
decide what the explicit goals for 1.0 are.

Some items that aren't explicitly on the roadmap, but that are part of our 
efforts include:

- improvements to documentation system
- improvements and additions to animation code
- dojo.math
- dojo.mop
- tools development
- demo apps
- better documentation
- articles
- screencasts
- talks at conferences
- hack-a-thons
- dinners


	 
About the Dojo Roadmap
------------------------

This roadmap outlines two separate sets of goals. One set is related to the
end-goals of a the product/project, while the other outlines the concrete
technical steps required to get there. We try to make sure that the linkages
between goal and means are explicit where possible. Simply stated, Dojo has the
following large-scale goals:

    - Make it easier for web application authors to build responsive client-side UIs
    - Build a toolkit that will become the defacto DHTML toolkit for developers of every skill level
    - Reduce barriers to adoption

Based on these goals, several guiding principles "fall out" that guide our
development:

    - Developer effort should scale with requirements

        + allegory: getting "up and running" with the toolkit should be as
          simple as humanly possible
        + allegory: deploying for and audience of 200 million people is always
          going to be hard and there aren't going to be a ton of people that
          need to do that, so make it easier than it is right now, but don't
          make "average" developers pay the associated costs

    - Make it possible to take only what you need from the toolkit w/ the
      least amount of overhead code
    - Don't tie the toolkit to a single server-side language, but provide good
      support for many of them. 

        + allegory: allow developers to easily "plug in" at any level in the
          toolkit. If you want to use a server-side data binding library great,
          but supporting that shouldn't make it any harder for another
          developer to manually roll REST requests.

    - Build for today, plan for tomorrow: HTML is here today, but SVG will be
      ubiquitous soon enough. Dojo should make it simple to transition from
      only one to a mixed environment.

        + WhatWG and SVG are still emergent technologies that could have a huge
          impact, but not in the near term. Dojo will focus on delivering
          near-term solutions, but should provide simple or transparent upgrade
          paths to take advantage of these technologies when they are
          available.

Dojo is a large, continuing effort which is broader in scope than many of the
predecessor toolkits from which we draw. There are many, many "wouldn't it be
cool..." features that the contributors would like to add into the toolkit, but
many of these simply aren't feasible for 1.0 with the number of contributors
adding code to the project and the quality of the release we want to produce.

There are several large functional goals that Dojo works to acheive. Breifly,
they are:

    - Creating a package and build system that makes it possible to take only
      what you need and easily prepare deployment packages of that code.
    - Building a JavaScript code library that is broadly useful, regardless of
      host environment (Rhino, HTML, SVG, etc.)
    - Creating a widget infrastructure that allows for "upgradeability" of
      existing applications as well as simple development for ground-up
      development.
    - Building a set of stable, functional, and portable widgets for HTML and
      other supported environments based on market demand.
    - Simplifying the process of doing complex browser/server data transfer and
      RPC.

To reach these goals, there are many smaller bits of code that are or will be
written as a part of Dojo. Groking the roadmap means understanding these
modules or major components:

    - Core

        **Build System** : mostly complete
            allows developers to portably make "builds" of the toolkit which
            include only those portions which are required by their
            application. Further, automatically "compress" the resulting
            single-file build in order to reduce the amount of code sent to the
            browser.

        **Bootstrap** : done
            allows for environment-specific implementations of a small set of
            universally required features (like option parsing).

        **Package System** : done
            Part of the bootstrap, provides dependency satisfaction and the
            ability to "roll up" multiple files into a single file for
            deployment

        **Event System** : done
            this is a generic, AOP-style event system

        **Parser System** : done (at least for common use cases)
            takes XML, XHTML, or SVG and returns an identical JS object
            structure regardless of source

    - I/O

        **Unified Interface** : done
            ``dojo.io.bind()`` is the interface through which I/O happens in Dojo

        **Platform-Specific Transports** : in progress
            a stable transport is provided for XMLHTTP (specific to browsers)
            and a port of repubsub is mostly complete (also for browsers). No
            work has yet been done for iframe-based transports or for
            Java-based transports for Rhino environments.

    - Widgets

        **Parser System** : done
            allows the generic XML-to-JS parser to build Dojo widgets

        **Base Widget classes** : done
            provide the generic interfaces that all widgets must implement.
            Widget classes for DOM, SVG, and HTML are currently complete.
            Others (such as SWT) are much lower priority right now.

        **Rapid Templating System** : done
            allows HTML widget authors to prototype a UI build by writing HTML
            and CSS instead of writing DOM calls.

        **UI Event System**
            includes things like the setting of keystroke event handlers which
            are then attached to widgets instead of DOM nodes or other
            rendering primitives

        **UI Constraint Language**
            allows authors of widgets and applications to specify a set of
            "constraints" or expressions that define how a UI should behave

        **Widget Implementations** : a number of useful widgets are done
            many common UI idioms aren't suppoted by native HTML widgets, Dojo
            will build a large collection of high-quality widgets which can be
            "plugged in" to existing applications.

        **Animation** : a useful subset of this is done
            support for animations and effects

    - Language Improvements

        **Collections** : done
            provides common data structures for thorny problems

        **URI** : done
            Methods for handling URI manipulation, calculation, and access.

        **Functional Programming Primitives**
            not yet started

        **i8LN support**
            not yet started

        **Crypto** : a few crypto modules are implemented
            in progress

        **Generic Algorithms**
            not yet started, will include sorting, searching, etc.

        **Concurrent Programming**
            not yet started, will provide delayed execution ("threads") for
            non-threaded environments, like browsers

        **MOP**
            not yet started. Meta-object protocol primitives, mainly ports from
            Burst.

        **Math**
            implementations of various useful math functions necessaray for
            things like graphing and spreadsheet calculations.


    - Other


        **Misc.**
            there are other namespaces which are spec'd out under which Dojo
            could contribute to the state of the art in JS programming, but no
            work has been started on implementing them in any environment.

Much of the above list is "plumbing" which end goals of the Dojo project
require. For instance, one goal of Dojo is relative rendering context
independence. It's much easier to support multiple rendering environments from
a single XML markup base when you have a client-side parser that normalizes XML
into a consistent JavaScript data structure, but the parser itself isn't
necessarily a project goal.

Code Checkins
----------------

A complete list of checkins may be found through our `checkins mailing list`_

Releases
------------------------

There are currently no full release builds available other than tarball
snapshots. The `dojo interest mailing list`_ contains regular updates.
`Anonymous SVN access`_ is available, as is an `initial profile build`_. Ant is
required to use our build system.

Getting Involved
------------------------

Currently, contributors are added to the project through invitation only, much
like firefox. If you would like to contribute to the Dojo project, please
contact us through the `dojo interest mailing list`_.

License
-------

Dojo is licensed under the very friendly `Academic Free License v 2.1`_ or
alternately under the terms of the BSD license should you need to use Dojo with
(L)GPL software. Some `thoughts on the AFL license`_.

Dojo Foundation
---------------

Dojo is a California nonprofit corporation.  We're currently working on 
mundane details like bylaws and tax exemption status.


.. FIXME: insert correct urls, and additional urls to make this more useful

.. _`checkins mailing list`: http://www.dojotoolkit.org/pipermail/dojo-checkins/
.. _`dojo interest mailing list`: http://www.dojotoolkit.org/pipermail/dojo-interest/
.. _`initial profile build` : http://dojotoolkit.org/dojo_browserio.tar.gz
.. _`baking usability into XMLHTTP` : http://dojotoolkit.org/intro_to_dojo_io.html
.. _`Anonymous SVN access` : http://dojotoolkit.org/svn/dojo/
.. _`Academic Free License v 2.1` : http://opensource.org/licenses/afl-2.1.php
.. _`thoughts on the AFL license` : http://netwindows.org/pipermail/ng-dhtml_netwindows.org/2005-January/000643.html

.. raw:: html
   :file: ../website/rest_template/sidebar.html

.. raw:: html
   :file: ../website/rest_template/docs_menu.html

:Author: Alex Russell,Dylan Schiemann
:Version: 0.5 most necessary markup constructs, with space to later saccomodate
more elaborate declaration mechanisms.


.. vim:ts=4:et:tw=0:shiftwidth=4:
