.. title:: dojo.widget.html.DatePicker -- The Dojo Manual

.. this is a comment. for more information on reST, see:
   http://docutils.sf.net/docs/user/rst/quickstart.html
   http://docutils.sf.net/docs/user/rst/quickref.html

Name
===============================================================================

dojo.widget.html.DatePicker - A stand-alone DatePicker widget that makes it 
easy to select a date, or switch by month and/or year.  The infrastructure is 
in place to also allow scrolling by week rather than month, which is useful for 
looking at schedules near the end of a month, without having to view two months 
of data (though this feature is not implemented yet).

Summary and Overview
===============================================================================

As JavaScript's Date and Time core APIs leave much to be desired, this widget 
contains a lot of convenience methods for going between various date formats.

We always show 42 days at a time, and we have things in place to scroll by week,
not just by month or year (though this is not yet implemented).

To get a sense of what month to highlight, we basically initialize on the 
first Saturday of each month, since that will be either the first of two or 
the second of three months being partially displayed, and then work forwards 
and backwards from that point. Currently, we assume that dates are stored in the 
`RFC 3339`_ format (2005-06-30T08:05:00-07:00), because Dylan finds it to be most human readable and easy to 
parse.  Extension of this to support other date formats, such as those found in 
dojo.date, would be a welcome contribution.

.. _`RFC 3339`:	http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc3339.html

Usage
===============================================================================

::

var datePicker = dojo.widget.fromScript("DatePicker", {},  
dojo.byId("datePickerNode"));

or

<div dojoType="DatePicker"></div>
																		

API Reference
===============================================================================

Properties
---------------------------------------

``today``:

    A JavaScript Date object representing the current Date, based on the date 
		of the client computer

``date``:

    A JavaScript Date object representing the currently selected date in the 
		DatePicker

``storedDate``:

    An `RFC 3339`_ Date (2005-06-30T08:05:00-07:00 ) representing the 
		currently stored date for the DatePicker

``currentDate``:

    An object representing the currently selected date as it appears in the 
		user interface.  year, month, and date properties are set on this object.

``currentDate``:

    An object representing the date of the first Saturday currently shown in 
		the DatePicker.  This is useful for implementing a feature that will 
		allow the DatePicker to be scrolled by week rather than by month, and 
		allow easy determination of which month a date is in for distinctive 
		styling of dates from different months.

``classNames``:

    An object representing the CSS class names for the previous, current, and 
		next months, as well as the current and selected dates.

``templatePath``:

    dojo.uri.dojoUri object representing the url for the html template for a 
		DatePicker widget.
		
``templateCssPath``:

    dojo.uri.dojoUri object representing the url for the css to be used for a 
		DatePicker widget.

Methods
---------------------------------------

``fillInTemplate(param)``:

    Standard widget initialization function that allows the data and UI to be 
		initialized after the template has been loaded.

    no parameters

    *returns*:
        null
				
				
``initData()``:

    Initializes the date data for the DatePicker widget instance.  For example, 
		if there is not already a value for storedDate, it is populated with 
		today's date from the client.

    no parameters

    *returns*:
        null

``setDate(rfcDate)``:

    Sets the value for storedDate to the rfcDate parameter that is passed. This 
		is useful as it makes it easy to attach a dojo.event.connect statement to 
		setDate to watch for changes to the storedDate value.

    ``rfcDate``:
        A date in `RFC 3339`_ format

    *returns*:
        returnValue

``toRfcDate(jsDate)``:

    Convert a JavaScript date object, jsDate, to an `RFC 3339`_ date format. If 
		no jsDate is passed in, it converts the value of today.  There is currently 
		little attempt to validate the date inside this method.  Time is treated as 
		0, in the GMT time zone, since this is a DatePicker.  This should probably 
		be re-evaluated to chose using the time zone of either the current user, or 
		a time zone that is passsed to the object.

    ``jsDate``:
        A JavaScript Date object instance

    *returns*:
        an `RFC 3339`_ date

Requires
===============================================================================

- `dojo.widget`_
- `dojo.widget.HtmlWidget`_
- `dojo.widget.DatePicker`_
- `dojo.html`_

.. _`dojo.widget`:	widget.html
.. _`dojo.widget.HtmlWidget`:	widget/HtmlWidget.html
.. _`dojo.widget.DatePicker`:	widget/DatePicker.html
.. _`dojo.html`:	html.html

Provides
===============================================================================

dojo.widget.html.DatePicker
    A class constructor that allows a widget of type 
		dojo.widget.html.DatePicker to be created.


About
===============================================================================

:Author: Dylan Schiemann
:Version: 0.1
:Copyright: Dojo Foundation, 2005
:Date: 2005/11/08

.. vim:ts=4:et:tw=80:shiftwidth=4:
