.. raw:: html
   :file: website/rest_template/header.html

Current Efforts
-------------------

0.1
*********************
- Provides multiple useful "profiles" (browserio, widgets, etc.)
- Core Features:
    + Fast widget prototyping and explination thereof
    + XMLHTTP transport for bind()
    + Supports ``<connect />`` and ``<propertyset />`` elements

- Widgets:
    + combo box
    + button widget
    + right-click (context) menu

Details beyond 0.1 are available in the `Dojo Roadmap`_


Status
------------------------

Dojo is currently in heavy development. As you can glean from the list of
modules in the roadmap, we have finished a significant portion of the core
"plumbing" for the project, and we also have our first widget, a button, that 
can be constructed from markup in HTML and SVG namespaces. We have also shipped 
an `initial profile build`_, and a supporting article, `baking usability into XMLHTTP`_

We still have a lot of work to do on making our widget system better,
especially in the world of SVG, but good SVG widget support will come later
rather than sooner. The current SVG button could be described as hacky at best.
A button is a surprisingly complex widget, at least if it is done with any sort
of sane flexibility and constraints.

Other things we are actively working on include our event, IO, and data binding
systems. This makes Dojo an excellent toolkit for sending messages and data
between the client and server, and between components in the client. Ongoing
improvements and refinements are being made to our xml declaration language
(specifically to support contraints and state) and parser. The parser currently
supports the most necessary markup constructs, with space to later saccomodate
more elaborate declaration mechanisms.

More details are available in the `Dojo Roadmap`_

Code Checkins
----------------

A complete list of checkins may be found through our `checkins mailing list`_

Releases
------------------------

There are currently no full release builds available other than tarball
snapshots. The `dojo interest mailing list`_ contains regular updates.
`Anonymous SVN access`_ is available, as is an `initial profile build`_. Ant is
required to use our build system.

Getting Involved
------------------------

Currently, contributors are added to the project through invitation only, much
like firefox. If you would like to contribute to the Dojo project, please
contact us through the `dojo interest mailing list`_.

License
-------

Dojo is licensed under the very friendly `Academic Free License v 2.1`_. Some
`thoughts on the AFL license`_.

Dojo Foundation
---------------

Dojo is a California nonprofit corporation.  We're currently working on 
mundane details like bylaws and tax exemption status.


.. FIXME: insert correct urls, and additional urls to make this more useful

.. _`checkins mailing list`: http://www.dojotoolkit.org/pipermail/dojo-checkins/
.. _`Dojo Roadmap`: http://www.dojotoolkit.org/projectRoadmap.html
.. _`dojo interest mailing list`: http://www.dojotoolkit.org/pipermail/dojo-interest/
.. _`initial profile build` : http://dojotoolkit.org/dojo_browserio.tar.gz
.. _`baking usability into XMLHTTP` : http://dojotoolkit.org/intro_to_dojo_io.html
.. _`Anonymous SVN access` : http://dojotoolkit.org/svn/dojo/
.. _`Academic Free License v 2.1` : http://opensource.org/licenses/afl-2.1.php
.. _`thoughts on the AFL license` : http://netwindows.org/pipermail/ng-dhtml_netwindows.org/2005-January/000643.html

.. raw:: html
   :file: website/rest_template/sidebar.html

:Author: Alex Russell,Dylan Schiemann
:Version: 0.4
:Copyright: Dojo Foundation, 2005
:Date: 2005/03/21

.. contents::

.. raw:: html
   :file: website/rest_template/footer.html

.. vim:ts=4:et:tw=0:shiftwidth=4:
