.TH "CallStack" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
CallStack \- CallStack object. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBCallStack\fP (Number depth)"
.br
.RI "\fIConstructor.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fB_fill\fP (void depth)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBfill\fP (Number depth)"
.br
.RI "\fIFills the object with the current call stack info.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBString\fP \fBtoString\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieve call stack as string.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBArray\fP< \fBString\fP > \fBgetStack\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieve call stack as array.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBArray\fP< \fBString\fP > \fBmStack\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe array with the stack.\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
CallStack object.
.PP
The object is extremly system dependent, since its functionality is not within the range of ECMA 262, 3rd edition. It is supported by JScript and SpiderMonkey and was supported in Netscape Enterprise Server 2.x,  but not in the newer version 4.x. 
.PP
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void CallStack::CallStack (Number depth)"
.PP
Constructor.
.PP
The object collects the current call stack up to the JavaScript engine. Most engines will not support call stack information with a recursion. Therefore the collection is stopped when the stack has two identical functions in direct sequence. 
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIdepth\fP\fP
Maximum recorded stack depth (defaults to 10). 
.SH "MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void CallStack::_fill (void depth)"
.PP
.SS "void CallStack::fill (Number depth)"
.PP
Fills the object with the current call stack info.
.PP
The function collects the current call stack up to the JavaScript engine. Any previous data of the instance is lost. Most engines will not support call stack information with a recursion. Therefore the collection is stopped when the stack has two identical functions in direct sequence. 
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIdepth\fP\fP
Maximum recorded stack depth (defaults to 10). 
.SS "\fBArray\fP<\fBString\fP> CallStack::getStack ()"
.PP
Retrieve call stack as array.
.PP
The function returns the call stack as \fBArray\fP of Strings.  
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
The call stack as array of strings. 
.SS "\fBString\fP CallStack::toString ()"
.PP
Retrieve call stack as string.
.PP
The function returns the call stack as string. Each stack frame has an  own line and is prepended with the call stack depth. 
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
The call stack as string. 
.SH "MEMBER DATA DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "\fBArray\fP<\fBString\fP> CallStack::mStack"
.PP
The array with the stack.
.PP


.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
