.TH "ComparisonFailure" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
ComparisonFailure \- Thrown when a test assert comparing equal strings fail. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
Inherits \fBAssertionFailedError\fP.
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBComparisonFailure\fP (\fBString\fP msg, \fBString\fP expected, \fBString\fP actual, \fBCallStack\fP stack)"
.br
.RI "\fIConstructor.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBString\fP \fBtoString\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the error message.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBmExpected\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBmActual\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBString\fP \fBname\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe name of the ComparisonFailure class as \fBString\fP.\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
Thrown when a test assert comparing equal strings fail.
.PP
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void ComparisonFailure::ComparisonFailure (\fBString\fP msg, \fBString\fP expected, \fBString\fP actual, \fBCallStack\fP stack)"
.PP
Constructor.
.PP
An AssertionFailedMessage needs a message and a call stack for construction. 
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fImsg\fP\fP
Failure message (optional). 
.TP
\fB\fIexpected\fP\fP
The expected string value. 
.TP
\fB\fIactual\fP\fP
The actual string value. 
.TP
\fB\fIstack\fP\fP
The call stack of the assertion. 
.SH "MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "\fBString\fP ComparisonFailure::toString ()"
.PP
Returns the error message.
.PP
\fBReturns: \fP
.in +1c
Returns the formatted error message. Returns '...' in place of common prefix and '...' in place of common suffix between expected and actual. 
.PP
Reimplemented from \fBError\fP.
.SH "MEMBER DATA DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "int ComparisonFailure::mActual"
.PP
.SS "int ComparisonFailure::mExpected"
.PP
.SS "\fBString\fP ComparisonFailure::name\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
The name of the ComparisonFailure class as \fBString\fP.
.PP
Reimplemented from \fBAssertionFailedError\fP.

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
