.TH "JsUnit.js" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
JsUnit.js \- \fBTest\fP unit classes for JavaScript. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Compounds"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBAssert\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA set of assert methods.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBAssertionFailedError\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThrown when a test assertion fails.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBBaseTestRunner\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIGeneral base class for an application running test suites.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBClassicResultPrinter\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBComparisonFailure\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThrown when a test assert comparing equal strings fail.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBExceptionTestCase\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA \fBTestCase\fP that expects an exception of class mClass to be thrown.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBHTMLTestRunner\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIClass for an application running test suites reporting in HTML.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "interface \fBProtectable\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA protectable can be run and throw an \fBError\fP.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBRepeatedTest\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA Decorator that runs a test repeatedly.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBResultPrinter\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIClass to print the result of a \fBTextTestRunner\fP.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "interface \fBTest\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA test can be run and collect its results.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBTestCase\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA test case defines the fixture to run multiple tests.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBTestDecorator\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA Decorator for Tests.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBTestFailure\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA TestFailure collects a failed test together with the caught exception.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "interface \fBTestListener\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA listener for test progress.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBTestResult\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA TestResult collects the results of executing a test case.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBTestRunListener\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA listener interface for observing the execution of a test run.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBTestRunner\fP"
.br
.RI "\fITestRunner of JsUnit 1.1.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBTestSetup\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA Decorator to set up and tear down additional fixture state.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBTestSuite\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA TestSuite is a composition of Tests.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBTextTestRunner\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIClass for an application running test suites with a test based status report.\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
\fBTest\fP unit classes for JavaScript.
.PP
 This file contains a port of the JUnit Java package of Kent Beck and  Erich Gamma for JavaScript.
.PP
If this file is loaded within a browser, an onLoad event handler is set. This event handler will set the global variable isJsUnitPageLoaded to true. Any previously set onLoad event handler is restored and called.
.PP
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
