.TH "NSServerTestRunner" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
NSServerTestRunner \- Class for an application running test suites with a Netscape Server. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
Inherits \fBTextTestRunner\fP.
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBNSServerTestRunner\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprintFooter\fP (\fBTestResult\fP result)"
.br
.RI "\fIWrite a footer at application end with a summary of the tests.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprintHeader\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIWrite a header starting the application.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBwriteLn\fP (\fBString\fP str)"
.br
.RI "\fIWrite a line of text to the console to the browser window.\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
Class for an application running test suites with a Netscape Server.
.PP
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void NSServerTestRunner::NSServerTestRunner ()"
.PP
.SH "MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void NSServerTestRunner::printFooter (\fBTestResult\fP result)"
.PP
Write a footer at application end with a summary of the tests.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIresult\fP\fP
The result of the test run. 
.SS "void NSServerTestRunner::printHeader ()"
.PP
Write a header starting the application.
.PP
.SS "void NSServerTestRunner::writeLn (\fBString\fP str)"
.PP
Write a line of text to the console to the browser window.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIstr\fP\fP
The text to print on the line. 

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
