.TH "TestRunListener" 3 "9 Nov 2002" "JsUnit" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
TestRunListener \- A listener interface for observing the execution of a test run. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBTestRunListener\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBtestEnded\fP (\fBString\fP testName)"
.br
.RI "\fIA test ended.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBtestStarted\fP (\fBString\fP testName)"
.br
.RI "\fIA test started.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBtestRunEnded\fP (Number elapsedTime)"
.br
.RI "\fIA test run was ended.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBtestFailed\fP (Number status, \fBString\fP testName, \fBString\fP trace)"
.br
.RI "\fIA test failed.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBtestRunStarted\fP (\fBString\fP suiteName, Number testCount)"
.br
.RI "\fIA test run was started.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBtestRunStopped\fP (Number elapsedTime)"
.br
.RI "\fIA test run was stopped.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "Number \fBSTATUS_FAILURE\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIStatus for a failure.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "Number \fBSTATUS_ERROR\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIStatus for an error.\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
A listener interface for observing the execution of a test run.
.PP
\fBNote: \fP
.in +1c
This class is an 'initial version' in JUnit 3.8.1 and might be replace \fBTestListener\fP some day. 
.PP
.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void TestRunListener::TestRunListener ()"
.PP
.SH "MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void TestRunListener::testEnded (\fBString\fP testName)"
.PP
A test ended.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItestName\fP\fP
The name of the ended test. 
.SS "void TestRunListener::testFailed (Number status, \fBString\fP testName, \fBString\fP trace)"
.PP
A test failed.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIstatus\fP\fP
The status of the test. 
.TP
\fB\fItestName\fP\fP
The name of the failed test. 
.TP
\fB\fItrace\fP\fP
The stack trace as \fBString\fP. 
.SS "void TestRunListener::testRunEnded (Number elapsedTime)"
.PP
A test run was ended.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIelapsedTime\fP\fP
The number of elapsed milliseconds. 
.SS "void TestRunListener::testRunStarted (\fBString\fP suiteName, Number testCount)"
.PP
A test run was started.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIsuiteName\fP\fP
The name of the test suite. 
.TP
\fB\fItestCount\fP\fP
The number of tests in the suite. 
.SS "void TestRunListener::testRunStopped (Number elapsedTime)"
.PP
A test run was stopped.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIelapsedTime\fP\fP
The number of elapsed milliseconds. 
.SS "void TestRunListener::testStarted (\fBString\fP testName)"
.PP
A test started.
.PP
Parameters: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fItestName\fP\fP
The name of the started test. 
.SH "MEMBER DATA DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "Number TestRunListener::STATUS_ERROR\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
Status for an error.
.PP
.SS "Number TestRunListener::STATUS_FAILURE\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
Status for a failure.
.PP


.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for JsUnit from the source code.
